---
layout: post
title: Build GDB for Android
---

##0. introduction

If you need GDB on Android, it's very likely that you got a copy without some feature like gcore. So a good idea is to build GDB on your own to acquire these features.

Following process is done on Fedora 21 and should be compatible with other linux platform.

##1. gdb part

source: [https://android.googlesource.com/toolchain/gdb.git]()

Here we build version 7.7

Install *termcap* and *bison*, or there will be error during make process.

In file /gdb-7.7/gdb/remote.c, search for "packet reply is too long" and modify as follows:

    //if(buf_len > 2 * rsa->sizeof_g_packet)
    //    error(_("Remote 'g' packet reply is too long: %s"),rs->buf);
    
    if(buf_len > 2 * rsa->sizeof_g_packet)
    {
        rsa->sizeof_g_packet = buf_len;
    ...

Then run the following command:

    ./configure --target=arm-linux-androideabi --prefix=<result_absolute_path>
    sudo make
    sudo make install

If you see "no termcap library found", install termcap.

If you see something like "multiple definition of main" or "undefined reference to 'c_parse'", install bison.

##2. gdbserver part
First, download [android ndk](http://developer.android.com/tools/sdk/ndk/index.html) and run:

    chmod a+x android-ndk-r10c-darwin-x86_64.bin
    ./android-ndk-r10c-darwin-x86_64.bin

and in the extracted file directory, run:

    sudo ./build/tools/make-standalone-toolchain.sh --system=linux-x86_64 --toolchain=arm-linux-androideabi-4.9 --install-dir=<target_dir> --ndk-dir=<extracted_file_dir>

This will install android toolchain to <target_dir>. Then add <target_dir>/bin to PATH.

In path ./gdb-7.7/gdb/gdbserver, do as follows:

    CC=arm-linux-androideabi-gcc ./configure --target=arm-linux-androideabi --host=arm-linux-androideabi --prefix=<result_absolute_path>
    sudo make && sudo makeinstal

If there is error "arm-linux-androideabi-gcc: command not found", replace "CC=arm-linux-androideabi-gcc" with "CC=<gcc_absolute_path>".

##3. done

Now two files are available: arm-linux-androideabi-gdb and gdbserver. Strip command is helpful if you need a smaller version.

We can push gdbserver to android and run:

    ./gdbserver :<port_id> --attach=<pid>

Then run in the host:

    adb forward tcp:<port_id> tcp:<port_id>
    ./arm-linux-androideabi-gdb
    target remote :<port_id>